hi everyone
welcome to the ibfs core implementations
of 2020 i am making brain i'll be your
host
we are going to go through the high
priority initiatives other initiatives
blockers and asks parking lot designer
proposals
and all that good stuff so
kicking upcoming and releases
so uh the best uh 0.7
did not get out last week but it is
almost there i know
i know um actually i mean all of the
all the release stuff uh all of like the
things that we needed to investigate all
sort of turned out fine um
just needed to actually go through the
process of doing the release
um if fans was on the call i was gonna
ask him to
look at the orbit db test but
oh well the time has come and gone so
off to the release we go
um and that should be that should be
coming out
quite soon spec
itself and
kicked off supporting js
http client which
will be using new pin remote commands
from
work in progress pull request in go ipfs
uh i think we need to like wire up
config and figure it out
uh the way a config
will be up like updated like how we add
and remove uh
pinning services uh if it will be
possible to like modify like specific
one
in the way that's just like an array of
uh
objects in the config maybe we need a
dedicated command
like we have for bootstrappers or maybe
not
something we need to discuss yeah but
that's about it
on my end yeah i think so we have uh
has anyone reached out to matt about
regenerating the code on his end with
the newest
specs i did not hear from him but
i mean like before i attacked the
release i asked if
he's fine with changes and then after i
release i notified implementers
including pinata so i think it's fine
just like a matter of time okay because
so we need to still regenerate the code
so you can test against the
andrews test server um
[Music]
i think that the we're gonna probably
need a dedicated command
is my guess because uh
basically because the secur because the
api keys are effectively
as sensitive as symmetric keys um
you need to guarantee they're not
getting sent to the wrong place and so
changing the name is an attack vector
where
the name where the the key gets sent to
the wrong place
so
if you wish that they were asymmetric
keys you can take it up with
the people who don't want them to be
asymmetric keys right now
it looks like something
red flag in in what way
that like that there that we're using
symmetric style like
keys and tokens yeah like if it's so
trivial to
attacking yeah well it just means like
if i rename
you know your pinning service from alex
you know
alex's pinning service and to alex's
pinning service
back up and then i make a new one and
call it alex's pinning service
right um like i can like i can like
change the names around
so that when you're sending to me you're
actually sending me like a different key
um than you meant to
so we'll just have to make that not a
thing that you can do that's
it's fine
[Music]
i think those are all i think all that
stuff is is done i think most of these
issues are
like or some of these are are about
are resolved in the ipfs release so when
the release goes out
these will be done
yeah picking there um that'll all go out
without seven release and then
on the js ipfs side of thing i opened up
a pr today
uh to remove that everywhere um so that
can just go out whenever we do
the uh next minor release okay yeah i
suppose
you just know when you should release it
because it's gonna
obviously pull up control bridge for
older versions
yeah we'll also need to roll out the
announcement of like
when the interest like this is this is
you know your last whenever it is like
this is your last in for a week
so just let you know on all the social
medias let people know
that if you are running go fps 0.2
like this is the last time anyone else
will be able to talk to you
definitely
um she was no last update this week
uh so yeah suggests improves his
scalability and connectivity
yeah i uh so the after relay is still in
progress the initial implementation got
merged
last week in the 0.30 range which is a
branch for the jsonptp
feature release the milestones 23 are
ready for reviewing we'll review them
this week
they include the network update to
inform the other peers using an
identified
push that we have now a new listening
address that
people could use to reach to us and i
also needed to
update the self-signed peer records to
uh being basically recreated with the
new address
and the thermal sound basically
when we don't uh have uh
in enough relays to listen on
according to how user configured the
liberty we can
uh try to find them on the on the
network using
by now only b2b content routing so in
ipfs
people would basically use the delegates
as we still don't have the dhc enabled
by default
but i plan to also offer the
next week's follow up this with uh
rendezvous integration and
with this the plan is to basically have
the lpgp.discovery api
and basically we would go to rendezvous
to find it
through the delegates in the future
through dht and
the goal is to find remote relays and
other services
uh that we will eventually need uh
yeah and basically the last step for
for the auto relay part it's to uh
don't do don't announce the private
addresses which is a problem that we
already have and usually we have people
uh creating issues saying that we have
warnings for example
in the browser saying that we are trying
to dial to
local addresses in the browser which
it's basically because other peers are
advertising them as
listening addresses that people should
be able to dial which is not the case so
basically we will need to know that we
have the
auto relay to get rid of this issue
yeah and finally regarding the
connection manager overall
uh i started last week by creating a
document
with the baseline for discoverability
and connectivity
for each environment and use cases
not all but basically a start in the
goal year
is basically to understand what are the
important connections for a peer
in each use case and environment and
with that
try to find strategies for a more
intelligent connection manager in js
where basically we need to understand
for example uh the author real-life
connections that we
are buying to it's really important that
we cannot
disconnect that peer and we need to find
all these peers for example the peers
that we share topics of pub sub and
protect all these connections
automatically
and yeah basically find this kind of
strategies and yeah that's it
i'm going to want to improve um like so
something that's not implemented in json
conversion with uh sessions in blitzwell
um so i think there would be i guess we
end up treating it similar to
um like pops up here
because you have like groups of peers
that you want to
have like
yeah one of the things that i'm
considering in
this baseline is the application level
uh protocols that use the multicollect
topology and bitswap would be
in that category i'm uh we are still
aligning like uh how involved she has
the ptp would be
in the car side if it would basically be
intelligent enough to
just protect everything or if we should
guide people on
who build protocols and now they should
protect the peers
that's some of the things that we need
to polish
while we implement it i think
yeah did you say that js
ipvs doesn't have sessions in bitswap
um but i recommend that
if and when you do implement sessions
that
you allow there to be some sort of
context about
how the query was made or like
the evolution of the query um one thing
that we would
like to do and go is
be able to figure out like more stuff
about the graph
as part of the session so that you could
stop providing every single block and
instead provide
you know roots or files and directories
or just logarithmically blocks down the
tree every so often
right um something that is not
as much as just every block um and in
order to do that
we need more context about the query
than just i'm asking for a block
um so we have the legacy of trying to
like figure out how to plumb all these
things through but if you guys are
starting from scratch
something to keep uh under advisement
i invited several people here to it on
friday but if you're not on that let me
know and i'll add you
um to like a beyond bit swap research
discussion um because the
resident lab team is working on beyond
bit swap so what the future of the bit
swap or block swapping looks like
um so that's on friday to just
what's the state of that research
where's the project going solicit
feedback
um so this could be uh i don't know
if that will be a full replacement or
not for bitswap um or an amendment to
that
but that could be something that we we
look at
in lieu of going through the process of
adding
sessions to js but
we can see what the timeline looks like
for that
could you add me to that meeting too
yeah thanks
okay that's uh the end of the high
priority initiatives
uh moving on to other initiatives um
[Music]
waiting for 0.7 to be released
uh no update for units
type faster um no uh not updated
1.5 and go up if that's as far as
tax service uh i
crossed it out uh i'll take that off the
list because
i'm not spending much time on it
so once i'll actually start then i'll
put it back on the list
um the next one is also mine improving
uh web ui file let's sing so a lot of
stuff has already landed uh
last remaining piece that i'm working on
is actually doing the ui piece so it
will
let you know how it's progressing
i also found out that
maybe the progress handler was there so
all of the patches that i wrote for the
update and download progress was not
necessary
um so i think i might close those pull
requests
but good news is we won't have the we
wanted the complexity
um the next one
up is also mine which is typescript
integration uh so for
ipfs there's a pull request that is
running on alex's review
i'm gonna do the update of that pull
request but the
middle of it will be the same mostly to
propagate some changes that happen in
the meantime
there's a pull request from alex that
targets
asia as it was introducing some type
generation
so i'll be taking up that from alex and
changing it slightly so it does more or
less what i do in ipfs and maybe
probably rewire ipf has to do the
azure thing
it just generates types separate from
the tree uh
and tells typescript where to look for
them
and then there's a older pull request
from
hugo that uh does a doc generation
from the types and
i forgot exactly what few other things
so i'll be splitting up
those into separate tasks and lend them
one by one
once we have a ipfs type
generation working i'll probably go on
and try to add the similar mechanism to
other recalls as well and take the
learnings that we get from there
so except expect pull requests there
part of the reason is also like for ipfs
to generate
meaningful types it should be able to
understand the dependencies pulls in
so if flippy t2p is not typed and none
of the ipld is typed and it can't really
make much
sense of it um yeah
so through that just one thing there are
some people interested in the
types in liberty as well so eventually
it would be good
that you think with them and we can you
can collaborate
yes uh i think some of the same people
did some minutes
original pull requests to typescript as
well uh
to ipfs as well with some types so yeah
i'm i'm definitely going to try to
leverage as much as i can on the
community
and i'm aware of many people who are
interested in that too
cool um i wanted to add a couple of
things into the other initiatives
so stuff i'm working on um so one thing
is i'm trying to decompose uh
the icfs module a little bit so i'm
spread out the
cli and the http api server um
and i mean what is kind of a cool um
the idea being that you can just require
the core you don't have to
like go through the installation of all
the
dependencies for the cli and the http
api which
you usually don't need um because that's
kind of something that people complain
about quite a lot
um and then so that's kind of
why i haven't got to the touchscript
stuff yet because i've been moving on so
far as well
um but that's what nearly almost done
and i went on an epic side quest
um to kind of bring npm on my professor
today so that we could run the uh go
profess 2.7 another test against guy
progress 9.7
which entailed bringing the icfs
npn registry mirror up to date because
it shares a whole bunch of the code
uh which has been interesting and i was
exposed to the misty v8 still
welcome because it cools through
into the noses tp module which requires
either
buffers or strings to be sent you're not
using aos which is
mega tedious um clearance unfortunately
that's different
i think i should have done this one and
then i'll be able to get back into
murdering the textbooks
cool uh that is it for the other
initiatives
no i just uh there is
there is uh you know someone poked at
like one of the
the old go ipfs issues for moving the
pins into the data store
um i suspect we're going to taking a
similar approach
to what you did in jessakifas
but i think it might be worth i don't
know if it's going to be this this week
or next week would be better
but discussing um
how we want the pinning to look in light
of
some of the changes to in light of
the work vital has done on the pinning
services api in particular around like
you know named pins or having multiple
pins that
target the same cid and like what might
be
an appropriate way to manage all of that
i don't think this week is going to be
the time for that but
maybe next week
i juan had some thoughts i think
at the pinning summit about that with a
pin object
api and some textile threads were also
involved i think
so it might be worse pulling those
in i think there's like there's like the
the short-term
data storage thing um and then there's
like a long-term
just moving pinning completely over to
threads
um but i think that is going to require
a much
much larger conversation but is there
something that we can do in that interim
that gets like
that pinning performance improvement for
um
the the pinning services so that they
can
you know just improve performance on
their systems until we get to the
the thread thing or whatever that ends
up being
i suspect that the big question will
just be like
for now i'll just be like what is the
thing to be the primary key
what is the correct thing is it like a
cid
or a name or some uuid
um and then once you have that
figuring out okay what do you want to do
in the cases where you want to
you wish the primary you know key was
something else
do you do we have a separate index or do
we just like eat the look-up cost
i suspect those are the the major issues
to to explore because without getting
too much into like oh hey what if we
added like
a whole new what if we replaced our one
dag thing that didn't quite work out
with like another dag thing that might
not work out
thanks for explaining
um i have one section i want to
mention uh so
in jazz projects we used to or still use
azure to do the eslinting but there were
the problems that
if you just clone a project and start it
vs code and other tools would assume
other formatting rules and what eslint
assumed because
they look for eslint config and if it's
not theirs then if they just go with a
generic sync i think
so with uh there's a pluricos for ipfs
that i don't think has landed yet
uh and put and succinct in asia landed
which is we have now
shareable config for eslint that azure
uses
uh so we could just add one liner to
every repo saying that extends ipfs
and then all the tools would be aware of
what the config should be like and
hopefully create a better experience
so i'll be adding some of that
to other repos and would encourage
others to help me with that too
and if somebody wants to help please do
that sounds like a job for autumn nation
uh maybe is there some sort of i guess
list for
of repos yeah right so i have some
code sitting around that looks through
every
repo in a a user or org
and looks for a file and then sees if it
matches
the file that i have locally and then
replaces it if it doesn't using
my github token i use it to update all
of the github
action workflows whenever there's a
change because i have like 50
repos that all have the same workflow um
so if you want to borrow that code it
might be like
a reasonable script to just go and
change all of these
but it it just overwrites the file it
doesn't like open a pr or anything so i
don't know if you want to be that
aggressive
uh yeah why don't you share the link
with me and i'll look at it and see
i can do it thanks
oh uh another thing um alex so
we did uh publish the fork of
basics based on your pull request in uh
multiformat's namespace or whatever the
scope
uh can we should we update the
js ipfs i think something was blocked on
basex right
maybe we should use that forks there
yeah um multi-base depended on basics
just release it as a point release so it
should just arrive
it's already done you mean or uh he
released
release it doesn't include it yeah
unless it depends on it
directly but like so so the next release
will put it in
to the browser bundle um it you know
built the minified version
but we can always do a part release if
it's a blocking thing
great thanks cool uh
questions
i shared the okr sheet so
fill it out uh we'll meet on thursday to
verify but add all your thoughts
please we're going to try to solidify
that this week
um that's that then
uh thanks for coming everyone um this
has been
my professional invitations represent
for monday the 21st of september 2020
please please seek updates
uh be safe see you on the internet bye